
AGILE AND JIRA CONCEPTS !!

> WHAT IS AGILE ?
-- Agile is a software development methodology. 
   It has an iterative approach to development. 
   Building and releasing software incrementally from the start of the project, rather releasing all at once in the end. 
   This ierative approach involves planning and developing iteration, implementing the work planned for that iteration and delivering the version of the product by the end. 
   Feedback is then gathered, and used to plan the next iteration. 
   This process continues until the product is fully completed. 
   This process allows the team to adapt the changing requirements. 
   Suppose, If some requirements change as the iterations are relatively short we can manage that in the next iteration. 
   Keeps the development flexible.
   At the end of iteration, we need to deliver a group of features for customer satisfaction, so they can test the features and give feedbacks. 

   Basically, Agile is [ ITERATION PLANNING > IMPLEMENTATION > DELIVERY AND FEEDBACK ] .


> JIRA SUPPORTS TWO AGILE METHODOLOGIES ? 
-- SCRUM 
-- KANBAN 

> WHAT IS SCRUM ?
-- It is a very popular agile methology. 
-- It breaks the project into smaller bits represented by epics and user stories. 
  a> EPIC - It is a larger body of work, broken into stories. 
  b> USER STORY / STORY - It a smallest unit of work. It represents a feature that needs to be developed. 
     For user stories,  usually define a specific format like type of user involved, their golas, and the reason or benefit for that goal. 
     User stories are prioritized. 
     It is continuously implemented and delivered in short cycle , called as SPRINTS. 

> SCRUM FLOW ?
-- It starts of with a product Backlog that contains all the features you want to build in a form of user stories. 
   The features and stories are prioritized and the most important feature or stories will be on the top of the backlog.
   Sprint Backlog basically means these are the features the team will implement during the current sprint. 
   Sprint is basically a pre-determined iteration (usually 2 to 4 weeks) where the development team takes the ticket from the sprint backlog and mark it as done by the end of the sprint. 
   During the sprint, the team will have a daily meeting called as DAILY SCRUM MEETING at a same time and place and discuss the progress and make sure it is on track. 
   Then, the release part comes in the picture, where the features will be released to the customers and they will give us feedback. 


> SCRUM ROLES ?
-- PRODUCT OWNER 
   He/ She basically owns the product.
   In other words,  they defines the vision of the product. 
   They defines what should be built and why. 
   They are responsible for defining what goes into the product backlog. 
   They also creates  the user stories, prioritizes them and make sure it is done. 
-- DEVELOPMENT TEAM 
   They basically builds the product. 
   They are responsible for providing end features at the end of the sprint.
-- SCRUM MASTER 
   They facilitates the scrum process.
   They make sure the team is on track.
   They also make sure there are no blockers for that sprint which would prevent the sprint goal to achieve.


> SCRUM EVENTS ?
-- SPRINT PLANNING
   In this stage, sprint backlog created from product backlog, which means the highest priority feature from the product backlog that the development team can work on during the next sprint.
   Then, the development team will provide their estimate time (story points or hours) needed for that backlog feature. 
   These all plan happens during the Sprint Planning Meeting. 
   Then, the sprint starts. 
-- DAILY SCRUM 
   After the sprint starts, the daily scrum meeting happens with all the members of the team. 
   The meet mainly facilitates by the scrum master. 
   In this meeting, minimum time is limited to 15 mins. 
   The team members what they did yesterday, what are their plans today and do they have any blockers. 
   In case, they have blockers the scrum master steps in and work with them to unblock the blockers they are facing. 
   Scrum call happens everyday for the ongoing sprint. 
-- SPRINT REVIEW 
   After the end of the sprint, reviewing stories which are completed or not completed. 
   And also, to discuss what went well during the sprint and to improve during the next sprint. 

IN JIRA, WE CAN SEE THE STATUS OF THE BACKLOG FOR THE CURRENT SPRINT AND UPDATE IT ACCORDINGLY. 
a> To Do --> b> In progress --> Done 

> SCRUM SUMMARY 
-- Product Owner -> Creates and manages the product backlog, filling backlog items or user stories. 
   Development Team -> Sprint planning meeting happens including all the developers to achieve the sprint goal.
                       During this process, the developer give estimation about hoe much it will be needed for them to complete. 
   Daily Scrum -> Everyday meeting happens for atleast 15 mins to discuss about the sprint. 
                  Scrum master facilitates this meet and ensures the team is on track and there are no blockers for the sprint.
   Sprint Review -> Meeting helds with all team members and the features will be released. 


> KANBAN 
-- It a simpler form of agile development. 
   It does consists any board to visualize the flow of the current work.
   There are no sprints. 
   The main goal is to complete the work without any stopage. 
   Kanban Board will be there to maintain the workflow. 
   It can monitors, adapt and improve as well.

> KANBAN BOARD 
-- Backlog - There will be tasks listed.
   Selected for development - Developers will only look into this column as they will start working on items listed over here. 
   In Progress - Here, in kanban we can set limit. If the limit is set to 1 then we can't add more that one task under this work in progress column.
   Done - After completing we can move the task to done column.

> EXAMPLES 
-- SCRUM -> mainly use for projects with defined features, where we know what to do and the time estimation as well. 
   KKANBAN -> Mainly use for support projects, unpredictable development. 



   
   


   



   

   
   
